#### **Applied Machine Learning (DS-420)**

#### **Project Topics**

You need to pick a project topic of your choice where you can apply
Machine learning and Deep learning. Usually we can choose any
application-oriented project of your own interests, this can range from
computer science to biology.

Once you identify the project, it is important to explore more about the
data availability and related work done. Most of projects need multiple
data sources to meet required target, for this you either need to
acquire the data through APIs or through crawling web pages, otherwise
you need to rely on data repositories like Kaggle, NIPS, UCI, Crawdad
etc. As data crawling or acquisition may take considerable time and need
good pre-processing, time management is key.

1.  #### **Some quick notes on specific types of projects:**

    1.  **Preprocessed datasets:** Even if you are not crawling or using
        API for data collection, and using pre-processed datasets, still
        you need to carry out data cleaning and visualization
        techniques. This will help you get familiar with the problem and
        achieve the target.

    2.  **Mirror or replication of existing project:** Even if you are
        replicating existing projects or doing mirror tasks, we expect
        you to apply multiple models/techniques to achieve target. There
        should be considerable comparison debate offered at the end of
        your project to compare different techniques and benefits over
        each other in term of accuracy metrices we studied.

    3.  **Deep learning-based projects:** If you are doing deep learning
        oriented projects, make sure you have access to required
        computational access.

2.  #### **Project Parts: Proposal, Milestone, Poster, & Final Report**

**Submission**: We’ll be using KATIE for submission of all four parts of
the final project. We’ll announce when submissions are open for each
part. You should submit on KATIE as a group: that is, for each part,
please make one submission for your entire project group and tag your
team members.

#### **Evaluation**

We will not be disclosing the breakdown of the 40% that the final
project is worth amongst the different parts, but the midterm
(presentation, demo and report) and final (Final report, Poster, Demo
and Presentation) will combine the majority of the grade. Projects will
be evaluated based on:

1.  The technical quality of the work. (i.e., Does the technical
    material make sense? Is data make sense to achieve target? Is data
    quality ensured? Are required attributes made available for model
    building? Are the things tried reasonable? Are the proposed
    algorithms or applications clever and interesting? Is model accuracy
    calculated effectively? Are different models/techniques compared
    well enough to materialize the results?)

2.  Significance. Is target significantly achieved and make sense?

3.  The novelty of the work. You need to ensure the originality of your
    work, project should not be a copied solely from any source. Even
    you are working on mirror/replication project, you should be in
    position to justify contribution.

In order to highlight these components, it is important you present a
solid discussion regarding the learnings from the development of your
method, and summarizing how your work compares to existing approaches.

1.  #### **Deliverables (Deadlines will be announced in class and on KATIE): **

    1.  #### **Project Proposals:**

In project proposals, you will introduce your problem statement, data
set required and general milestones you want to achieve during full
phase of project. So, your project proposal will have following parts in
it:

1.  **Project title and team members:** First you need state your
    project title with team member introductions.

2.  **Motivation:** What problem you are tackling? What application you
    can develop out of it? And most importantly what is the target you
    want to achieve through this?

3.  **Data:** You will discuss the data set? If it is pre-processed data
    or you need to acquire it through API/Crawling?

4.  **Milestones:** You need to state some of your milestones with dates
    for your projects, this will help you to stay on routine.

#### **Midterm Report and presentation:**

In Midterm project presentation you need to give 10 minute oral
presentation with 5 minute Q&A along with report with following parts in
it:

1.  Original problem statement: You need to introduce with your initial
    problem statement as given in project proposal.

2.  Introduction to data sets including data source, size (complete
    volume) , data attributes, types, statistical summary, data quality
    (Noise, Outliers, Duplicate and missing values), data cleaning,
    visualization techniques used (Histograms, Scatter plots, Heat maps,
    Reg plot etc.). Feature construction, feature extraction and feature
    removal as per your initial analysis for model development.

3.  Preliminary experiments: You need to describe any preliminary
    experiments you carried out on your data.

4.  Next steps you are planning to achieve the target?

<!-- -->

1.  **Final report, poster and presentation**

You will prepare a poster illustrating your complete task, it will give
everyone a good opportunity to see each other work. You need to present
your poster for about 3 minute following with your final presentation of
about 10 Minutes. There will be 5 minutes for Q & A session for each
group.

You need to submit your final poster, code/libraries and report day
before your presentation. Final report will have following components in
it:

1.  **Project Title and team members:** You need to write project name
    and team members name

2.  **Data:** You need to attach all the data pre-processing, quality
    and relevance work from midterm report. Additionally, you will
    discuss how you choose sample size? How yoßu defined Training and
    Test sets?

3.  **Model/Algorithms:** This portion will discuss what model you used?
    why you choose a particular model? Why its suitable? What is
    efficiency and accuracy of model? Comparison with other
    techniques/models? Show predictions on test cases? You need to
    provide R score, MSE, Confusion matrix etc scores along with
    possible visualizations to support your findings.

4.  **Significant findings and contributions:** You need to state
    significant findings and novel contributions to the problem.

At any point if you struggle with your project and stuck, please do
visit Professor. Kent or Professor.Shad. Our doors are always open to
advice you as it’s a win-win situation. All the best.
